## 2024

### January 2024

<a id="entry-2024-01-the-angel-s-game-8dfbdd13"></a>
#### The Angel's Game by Carlos Ruiz Zafón
Series: Cemetery of Forgotten Books 2

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Psychological thriller with ambiguous ending. Second in the graveyard of forgotten books series.

<a id="entry-2024-01-reasons-not-to-worry-how-to-be-stoic-in-chaotic-ti-96a7b9bf"></a>
#### Reasons Not to Worry: How to be Stoic in chaotic times by [Brigid Delaney](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Brigid-Delaney/e/B0BD2J9LSL/ref=dp_byline_cont_ebooks_1)

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

A very good and practical guide to stoicism. I didn’t like some of the writing style. Referring to “vibes”. Makes me want to read more on the subject.

<a id="entry-2024-01-great-expectations-0da24850"></a>
#### Great expectations by Charles Dickens

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Never read Dickens before. Very good story told from the fist person perspective. Didn’t expect the ending to be quite so melancholy. Dickens created larger than life characters they jump from the page. Some ridiculous. Not sure if they are meant to be believed or are characters.

### February 2024

<a id="entry-2024-02-ice-people-d8fc2bc5"></a>
#### Ice people by Tom Rob Smith

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Cinematic. Begging for a sequel. Clearly inspired by the three body problem

<a id="entry-2024-02-city-of-thieves-2e370261"></a>
#### City of Thieves by David Benioff

⭐️⭐️⭐️

Enjoyed this but very dark. Some of the characters lacked depth. But a great grim adventure

<a id="entry-2024-02-hyperion-cantos-book-1-5cd68fbc"></a>
#### Hyperion Cantos Book 1 by Daniel Simmons
Series: Hyperion Cantos 1

⭐️⭐️⭐️

Hard SiFi but interesting. Book clearly the first in a series. Who / what is the Shrike. What is the AI core up to?

### March 2024

<a id="entry-2024-03-child-44-ca2bfddc"></a>
#### Child 44 by Tom Rob Smith
Series: Leo Demidov Trilogy 1

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Great adventure and detective model set in Stalin’s Russia where there can be no crime.

<a id="entry-2024-03-hyperion-cantos-book-2-the-fall-of-hyperion-8ceab77d"></a>
#### Hyperion Cantos book 2 the fall of Hyperion by Dan Simmons
Series: Hyperion Cantos 2

⭐️⭐️

Overly long and mystical. Enjoyable in parts. Might consider reading more of the series.

### April 2024

<a id="entry-2024-04-alien-clay-a3df92a7"></a>
#### Alien Clay by Adrian Tchaikovsky

⭐️

Very entertaining but formulaic. The commandant was a one dimensional antagonist.

<a id="entry-2024-04-surface-detail-fdba91b9"></a>
#### Surface detail by Ian M Banks
Series: Culture Series

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Penultimate culture series novel and this sees the culture at its best. Lots of exciting politics, space battles and mischievous minds all working together at cross purposes with the humans getting caught in between.

<a id="entry-2024-04-the-secret-speech-3c91a343"></a>
#### The secret speech by Tom Rob Smith
Series: Leo Demidov Trilogy 2

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Another great thriller by Tom Rob Smith. Great romp, lots of blood and gore. The plot stretched credulity but then they do say “stranger then Fiction”. The story continues to follow Leo & Raisa as they try to build their lives with their adopted daughters in post Stalin USSR.

<a id="entry-2024-04-the-gun-slinger-403c0d55"></a>
#### The Gun Slinger by Stephen King
Series: The Dark Tower 1

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Very much tell this was written by a 19 year old. The book felt like one long introductory chapter which I guess it is. So many unanswered questions about this world. Looking forward to reading more.

<a id="entry-2024-04-empire-of-silence-1748ca2a"></a>
#### Empire of Silence by [Christopher Ruocchio](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/16917839.Christopher_Ruocchio)
Series: The Sun Eater 1

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

The world is heavily influenced by Dune. With an emperor, noble class, monopolies guilds, a ban on AI with trained humans filling the place of computers. However the universe is richer and the story more relatable. Some of the technology is inspired by “the culture” series. Eg. neural nets. I look forward to reading the next one.

<a id="entry-2024-04-the-drawing-of-the-three-6c9e0551"></a>
#### The drawing of the three by Stephen King
Series: The Dark Tower 2

⭐️⭐️

Very much enjoyed. Not like a fantasy I’ve read before. Roland, Eddie and Odetta/Detta/Samantha are a great combination. The interplay between them masterfully drawn. The horror real.

### May 2024

<a id="entry-2024-05-howling-dark-4fedf301"></a>
#### Howling Dark by [Christopher Ruocchio](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/16917839.Christopher_Ruocchio)
Series: The Sun Eater 2

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Really enjoyed this book the second in the sun eater series. The familiar set of characters is here with an expanded set. The threat of Vogossos, the terror of battle and the conflict behind Hadrian’s actions are all really well drawn. Excited to read the next one.

### June 2024

<a id="entry-2024-06-the-way-of-kings-056a26c8"></a>
#### The way of kings by Brandon Sanderson
Series: Stormlight Archive 1

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Massively enjoyed this fantasy novel. Characters are well drawn and it keeps you guessing. So many cliffhangers and questions at the end. The magic isn’t so well drawn and the nature of storm light feels like it needs some more explanation. I look forward to reading the next one!

<a id="entry-2024-06-words-of-radiance-94953050"></a>
#### Words of radiance by Brandon Sanderson
Series: Stormlight Archive 2

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
Really enjoyed this second installment of the Stormlight archive. The characters are starting to come together. However I felt the ending scenes were a little cheesy. Especially between Dalinar & Shallan. The nature of the universe is starting to come clear.

<a id="entry-2024-06-the-demon-in-white-1a4850df"></a>
#### The demon in white by [Christopher Ruocchio](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/16917839.Christopher_Ruocchio)
Series: The Sun Eater 3

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
Another romping adventure. The tale is linking fantasy and sci-fi together well. The battle the threat all great. This one feels like a middle book which I suppose it is!

<a id="entry-2024-06-oathbringer-cdd8e1e2"></a>
#### Oathbringer by Brandon Sanderson
Series: Stormlight Archive 3

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Enjoyed this one. Same wonderful battle scenes. But some issues with the pacing and plot. How did they get the singers out of Urithu? Looking forward to the final two books

### July 2024

<a id="entry-2024-07-kingdoms-of-death-ad1eb0dd"></a>
#### Kingdoms of death by [Christopher Ruocchio](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/16917839.Christopher_Ruocchio)
Series: The Sun Eater 4

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Horror pain adventure loss this was a dark but violently told tale. Where this goes in the story or why this needed to happen I do not know but I enjoyed the journey!

<a id="entry-2024-07-shogun-0335aa8f"></a>
#### Shōgun by James Clavell
Series: Asian Saga 3

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Vivid recreation of late medieval (Elizabethan Japan) the characters well drawn. The story engaging. Sometimes find it difficult to follow the change in perspective as the story switches point of view between characters.

<a id="entry-2024-07-rythym-of-war-f597ea51"></a>
#### Rythym of War by Brandon Sanderson
Series: Stormlight Archive 4

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Hugely enjoyable with a great deal of character and plot development. Aeolian still feels very 1 dimensional to me. All other characters have failings, flaws but Adolin to perfect. Was a bit too long.

<a id="entry-2024-07-ashes-of-man-1da56c22"></a>
#### Ashes of Man by [Christopher Ruocchio](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/16917839.Christopher_Ruocchio)
Series: The Sun Eater 5

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Wow. Read this in one weekend. Fantastic space opera. Fast paced and full of pathos. At times I was close to tears. My pulse high as I read the action. Great fun. But what to read next.

### August 2024

<a id="entry-2024-08-dissolution-f3a8f98f"></a>
#### Dissolution by C.J. Sansom
Series: Shardlake series 1

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Very enjoyable read. Real page turner and well researched. Look forward to reading another.

<a id="entry-2024-08-red-rising-8b86458a"></a>
#### Red Rising by Pierce Brown
Series: Red Rising Saga 1

⭐️⭐️⭐️

Real page turner. I’m enjoying the universe that is being built. Very much a coming of age story.

<a id="entry-2024-08-golden-son-ba1b7450"></a>
#### Golden Son by Pierce Brown
Series: Red Rising Saga 2

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Expands on the u inverse of the finally irst novel. We see Darrow grow up a bit and struggle through a number of challenges. Very entertaining and couldn’t put it down. I wounded if they revealed Darrow’s secret of his “Red” origins too soon. Will have to wait to find out.

<a id="entry-2024-08-dark-fire-24273cc7"></a>
#### Dark Fire by C.J. Sansom
Series: Shardlake series 2

⭐️⭐️⭐️

Enjoyable historical thriller. This novel lacked the dark menace of the first. But was still an enjoyable page turner.

<a id="entry-2024-08-morning-star-856031fd"></a>
#### Morning star by Pierce Brown
Series: Red Rising Saga 3

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Third in the story. I grew frustrated towards the end that the same cycle of capture and defeat would continue. Brown had me deceived. Loved the twist at the end. Don’t think I will rush to read the next volume. But will get to them I’m sure.

<a id="entry-2024-08-the-prisoner-of-heaven-b026d49d"></a>
#### The prisoner of heaven by Carlos Ruiz Zafón
Series: Cemetery of Forgotten Books 3

⭐️⭐️⭐️

Another enigmatic novel by Zafón I don’t really know what to make of it except incredibly atmospheric gives a real view of Franco Spain and Barcelona of the 30s 40s and 50s. The plot is dark but simple Daniel unsure of who his father really is learn that his father is not his father or maybe Heiz we learn more about Martin’s time in the prison in Barcelona and how Fermin to meet him. I enjoyed the book and read it with these, but I did not feel compelled to pick it up and continue reading it.

<a id="entry-2024-08-yellowface-c7218326"></a>
#### Yellowface by Rebecca F Kuang

#bookclub
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

This was a challenging read. It felt like an extended anxiety nightmare. The protagonist is entirely unlikeable. At points I found myself rooting for her if only so her pain would end.

Her predicament is entirely self inflicted she makes a series of horrible judgements and entirely selfish choices justified by what she thinks she feels she deserves.

The novel describes how the publishing industry works, ruthlessly. How it forces authors to compete and how high the stakes are.

Juni implicitly accepts her privilege and sees Asian authors success as a slight against her.

Question the book raises is are all authors magpies steeling the nuggets and content from other peoples lives. Where does inspiration end and theft or plagiarism begin?

### September 2024

<a id="entry-2024-09-malice-4aa6c73a"></a>
#### Malice by John Gwynne
Series: The Faithful and the Fallen 1

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Really enjoyed this. Fast paced and vivid characters. Loved the animal companion. Lines the story telling from different perspectives. Found myself more drawn into Corban’s plot than others and caring about him more. Reminded me of how Robert Jordan used different character perspectives in the wheel of time.

<a id="entry-2024-09-the-final-empire-07104f3e"></a>
#### The final empire by Brandon Sanderson
Series: Mistborn 1

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Starts like a heist story as a crew are brought together but expands to be so much more. Who is this immortal “Lord Ruler”

Highly enjoyable. Not as good as the storm light archive books but the adventure and characterization was good. I did find some of the characters a little shallow. Ellen’s could have been deepened. Why did he think differently to other nobles what happened in his past? But there will be other books to learn more about him.

<a id="entry-2024-09-lessons-on-chemistry-74ef83ce"></a>
#### Lessons on Chemistry by Bonnie Garmus

⭐️⭐️⭐️
#bookclub

Enjoyable family saga. Elizabeth Zott the protagonist did not feel real. She is too perfect. She represents the ideal modern female. Independent and courageous.

Book gives a good view of mid century sexism and the challenges women face.

I found the portrait of Zott as too perfect almost decision itself. She never shouted at Mad, never bullied, never sort revenge. She sets a standard that’s impossible to reach.

<a id="entry-2024-09-valour-9f8fef77"></a>
#### Valour by John Gwynne
Series: The Faithful and the Fallen 2

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Hugely enjoyable. Fast paced and great characterization. There is a good exploration of characters. They are not all good or all bad. Motivations explored. Clearly influenced by Tolkien and Robert Jordan. But original.

<a id="entry-2024-09-the-sunlit-man-06dbc8f8"></a>
#### The sunlit man by Brandon Sanderson

⭐️⭐️⭐️

Enjoyable sci-fi fantasy fusion.

### October 2024

<a id="entry-2024-10-the-well-of-ascension-c9e07ae8"></a>
#### The well of ascension by Brandon Sanderson
Series: Mistborn 2

⭐️⭐️

Entertaining. Good twist at the end. Good pace. Will likely read the next one.

<a id="entry-2024-10-ruin-1cd7094e"></a>
#### Ruin by John Gwynne
Series: The Faithful and the Fallen 3

⭐️⭐️⭐️

Enjoyable read. Fast paced with lots of action. Though the pacing makes the character work less strong and the world building not as good as other novels. Almost every scene is a battle or clash. No quiet moments at all.

<a id="entry-2024-10-disquiet-gods-3b934234"></a>
#### Disquiet Gods by [Christopher Ruocchio](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/16917839.Christopher_Ruocchio)
Series: The Sun Eater 6

⭐️⭐️⭐️

Greatly enjoyed. The world (universe) building is fantastic. The terror and horror of Vorgossos feels very real. The Christian theology comes over very strongly. Feels a bit heavy handed. The hybrid of fantasy and sci fi works really well.

<a id="entry-2024-10-the-hero-of-ages-1d2b4d7e"></a>
#### The hero of ages by Brandon Sanderson
Series: Mistborn 3

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Reverent twist at the end of full of action, drama and pathos. Though I didn’t engage with the characters as much as I have with other books.

<a id="entry-2024-10-project-hail-mary-2b916e06"></a>
#### Project Hail Mary by Andy Weir

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Uplifting exciting and optimistic. A brilliant and engaging story of shared humanity and compassion. I enjoyed the first person style.

<a id="entry-2024-10-wrath-18a32f92"></a>
#### Wrath by John Gwynne
Series: The Faithful and the Fallen 4

⭐️⭐️⭐️

Good if a little predictable. Seemed a little random who Gwynne chose to live and to die. But also there were predictable events. That Gar would die, that Asroth would come into the world. That Corban would reject power. Enjoyed. Will read more from this author.

### November 2024

<a id="entry-2024-11-too-like-the-lightning-eb912913"></a>
#### Too like the lightning by Ada Palmer
Series: Terra Incognita 1

⭐️⭐️

Not sure what to make of this one. Challenging. At times sound of hard to follow and the narrator style difficult to follow. The different factions “Hives” hard to keep straight. Not sure what the Bash system adds to the narrative. They are families. Extended families.

<a id="entry-2024-11-ultra-processed-people-521067dc"></a>
#### Ultra-processed people by Chris van Tulleken

#bookclub
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Very readable. Point is very labored at times. Made me reconsider how I eat.

<a id="entry-2024-11-the-darkness-that-comes-before-16b31275"></a>
#### The Darkness That Comes Before by R. Scott Bakker
Series: Prince of Nothing 1

Did not finish

Couldn’t get into this. Gave up. I found the names confusing and the lore hard to follow. Couldn’t get a feel for the characters or the world.

<a id="entry-2024-11-the-alloy-of-law-cf014ad6"></a>
#### The alloy of Law by Brandon Sanderson
Series: Wax and Wayne 1

⭐️⭐️⭐️

Enjoyable return to the world of Mistborn. I enjoy the Victorian line works and the new characters. Tight not group and close focus on three characters.

<a id="entry-2024-11-enders-game-3b5c8a09"></a>
#### Enders game by Orson Scott Card
Series: Ender Saga 1

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

One of the best books I have read in a very long time. The twist at the end was I suppose, in hindsight, inevitable but I did t see it. Ended is so beautifully drawn. The battle school so well imagined. The story felt vast even though it was short and set in a very small space.

<a id="entry-2024-11-prince-of-thorns-1d6ba5bd"></a>
#### Prince of thorns by Mark Lawrence
Series: The Broken Empire 1

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Very enjoyable. Dark and twisted and visceral. You can hear and smell the clash and stink of battle. The stench of the brothers leaps off the page. Pacing excellent descriptions vividly drawn. Questions on the origin of the world. Our world a 1,000 years after nuclear war?

<a id="entry-2024-11-shadows-of-self-3c39393b"></a>
#### Shadows of self by Brandon Sanderson
Series: Wax and Wayne 2

⭐️⭐️⭐️

Enjoyable adventure. More of the comers opening up. Nothing ground breaking on the previous novels.

<a id="entry-2024-11-pandoras-star-e4b98ed5"></a>
#### Pandora’s star by Peter F. Hamilton
Series: Commonwealth Saga 1

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

The first part of the story. We are left with a literal cliff hanger as Ozzie, Orion and their alien companion fall of the edge of a disk world and the prime invasion os happening and key players are realizing the starter os real. The only complaint with the star flyer idea is that it has to be real to be included in the plot. Part of me wonders if the SI (Sentient Intelligence) is the Starflyer, I suspect this even more seeing that the. Ext book is called Judas Unchained . Will read the next one right away to continue the story.

<a id="entry-2024-11-judas-unchained-d022d4b4"></a>
#### Judas unchained by Peter F. Hamilton
Series: Commonwealth Saga 2

⭐️⭐️⭐️

So the SI wasn’t the starflyer! Enjoyed a lot. I found the Silken and Izzie subplot unnecessary it didn’t carry the story forward and had only a small point towards the plot. Ozzie has humanities conscience could have got in to the plot elsewhere. I enjoyed the style and the epic world building. However the characterization is weak. Apart from Melanie who I felt I began to understand and see develop. Other characters felt one dimensional.

### December 2024

<a id="entry-2024-12-speaker-for-the-dead-a0666c4f"></a>
#### Speaker for the dead by Orson Scott Card
Series: Ender Saga 2

⭐️⭐️⭐️

Interesting follow up to Enders Game. Explores morality and a good character study. How Ended became so unbelievably good at reading people isn’t clear. Liked the description of a completely different life cycle and what that means for morality.

<a id="entry-2024-12-edge-dancer-7ef53461"></a>
#### Edge Dancer by Brandon Sanderson
Series: Stormlight Archive

⭐️⭐️⭐️

Enjoyable little novel. Lift is a great character and so enjoyable to read.

<a id="entry-2024-12-dawnshard-5ef8395a"></a>
#### Dawnshard by Brandon Sanderson
Series: Stormlight Archive

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Enjoyable short book expanding the universe and lore of the Stormlight Archive series.

<a id="entry-2024-12-wind-and-truth-a79eda31"></a>
#### Wind and truth by Brandon Sanderson
Series: Stormlight Archive 5

⭐️⭐️

Enjoyable conclusion without the moral weight and grace of the first few books. The twist wasn’t quite twisty enough however a good tale. The world building was incredible. Will read the next story ark.

<a id="entry-2024-12-endymion-3362a277"></a>
#### Endymion by Dan Simmons
Series: Hyperion Cantos 3

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

I loved this book. I struggled with the first two Hyperion books but this one was a joy to read. Mysterious and well paced. The story had me hooked. I look forward to reading the next!

<a id="entry-2024-12-the-blade-itself-77cdf688"></a>
#### The blade itself by Joe Abercrombie
Series: The First Law 1

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Extremely enjoyable. Dark bloody but full of humor. The characters and world are vivid and the plot interesting. This really was a great opening.

<a id="entry-2024-12-the-rise-of-endymion-b8a4941f"></a>
#### The rise of Endymion by Dan Simmons
Series: Hyperion Cantos 4

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Extremely good. I guessed that Raul would be the father. Don’t see A. Bettick as the observer. Excellent resolution to the story. Mixes metaphysics and theology beautifully. A hymn to humanism and the hope of a better future.

<a id="entry-2024-12-before-they-are-hanged-ea9431c2"></a>
#### Before they are hanged by Joe Abercrombie
Series: The First Law 2

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Amazing how Abercrombie makes a torturer a sympathetic character. Another thoroughly good read. Incredible character work a slow but building plot. Where is it all going to go.
